Rework static analysis docs (#7668)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/fusion/new-concepts.md

# New concepts <Lifecycle status="beta" />

import FusionBeta from '/snippets/_fusion-beta-callout.md';

<FusionBeta />

<IntroText>

The dbt Fusion engine fully comprehends your project's SQL, enabling advanced capabilities like dialect-aware validation and precise column-level lineage.

> It can do this because its compilation step is more comprehensive than that of the <Constant name="core" /> engine. When <Constant name="core" /> referred to _compilation_, it only meant _rendering_ &mdash; converting Jinja-templated strings into a query to send to a database.

Reviewer: Should we say SQL query? We switch to just "SQL" in the table that follows. 
```suggestion
It can do this because its compilation step is more comprehensive than that of the <Constant name="core" /> engine. When <Constant name="core" /> referred to _compilation_, it only meant _rendering_ &mdash; converting Jinja-templated strings into a SQL query to send to a database.
```

> The dbt Fusion engine can also render Jinja, but then it completes a second phase: producing and validating with _static analysis_ a logical plan for every rendered query in the project. This static analysis step is the cornerstone of Fusion's new capabilities.

Reviewer: This sentence is a little packed tight. Does this also work?
```suggestion
The dbt Fusion engine can also render Jinja, but then it completes a second phase: Using static analysis to produce and validate a logical plan for every rendered query in the project. This static analysis step is the cornerstone of Fusion's new capabilities.
```

Author: Nope that doesn't work - you produce the logical plan, then you statically analyze it to validate it, but static analysis is not the process of producing the LP.

</IntroText>

| Step | dbt Core engine | dbt Fusion engine |
|------|-----------------|--------------------|
| Render Jinja into SQL | ✅ | ✅ |
| Produce and statically analyze logical plan  | ❌ | ✅ |
| Run rendered SQL | ✅ | ✅ |

## Rendering strategies

> <Lightbox src="/img/fusion/annotated_steps.png" title="Each dot represents a step in that model's execution (render, analyze, run). The numbers reflect step order across the DAG. JIT steps are green; AOT steps are purple." alignment="left" width="600px"/>

Reviewer: Instead of having "JIT steps are green; AOT steps are purple." in the image text, could you add a tiny purple / tiny green dot to the image with descriptions? Visual will help people "get it" quicker (IMO).

NOTE: Later I realize how the numbering is helpful (in Complex DAG with an introspective branch) </le sigh>
Do we need to be showing the step order across the DAG (1...12)? It feels a little over complicated/detracting for illustrating the point. Hear me out. What if instead of numbers, you used only A, B, C? 
 
| Step | Description | dbt Core engine | dbt Fusion engine |
|------|-----------------|--------------------|
| A | Render Jinja into SQL | ✅ | ✅ |
| B | Produce and statically analyze logical plan  | ❌ | ✅ |
| C | Run rendered SQL | ✅ | ✅ |

Then in the animated images, you also use A,B,C for all 4 models. Like this: Fusion AAAA, BBBB, CCCC Core: AC, AC, AC, AC

### Introspective model with `unsafe` static analysis

Imagine we update `model_c` to contain an introspective query (such as `dbt_utils.get_column_values`). We'll say it's querying `model_b`, but the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />'s response is the same regardless of what the introspection does.

<Expandable alt_header="Unsafe static analysis of introspective models" is_open="true">
  <video src="/img/fusion/FusionJitRunUnsafe.mp4" autoPlay loop muted style={{ width: "100%", maxWidth: 950 }} />
</Expandable>

- During parsing, Fusion discovers `model_c`'s introspective query. It switches `model_c` to JIT rendering and opts `model_c+` in to JIT static analysis.
- `model_a` and `model_b` are still eligible for AOT compilation, so Fusion handles them the same as in the introspection-free example above. `model_d` is still eligible for AOT rendering (but not analysis).
- Once `model_b` is run, Fusion renders `model_c`'s SQL (using the just-refreshed data), analyzes it, and runs it. All three steps happen back-to-back.
- `model_d`'s AOT-rendered SQL is analyzed and run.

> <Expandable alt_header="Complex DAG with an introspective branch" is_open="true">

Reviewer: I guess my ABC idea falls short here.

Author: 😂 yeah the visualisations have been punishing to get right - this is the best approach I came up with after a lot of rounds of feedback from dx
